>> Kyle: All right,
now, back to variables,
we've mentioned this many times, but
we didn't explicitly define that.
And here is where it matters,
if you put a var in front of something.
So, if I have a program where
the very first line says a = 42,
I'm assigning to a variable that
has never been formally declared.
And assigning to a variable that's
never been formally declared,
is a really, really bad idea.
Every variable that you use in your
program should be formally declared.
And it should be formally declared,
before the first time you use it.
Okay, technically this program
formally declares a and
uses it, but it makes use of this concept.
Which we won't really get into here, it
makes use of this concept called hoisting.
And it's a more confusing program even
though it's a correctly running program.
>> Speaker 2: Like I say you should,
declares it after the scope tool.
>> Kyle: Yeah, I cover hoisting
a lot more in the book on Scope and
Closures, so
if you wanna get into the nuances of it.
It has to do with the fact that this
program is gonna get compiled first.
So it's gonna find that var
a before it tries to run anything,
but this is a more confusing
version of the program.
You would always want to prefer,
for less confusing programs,
to write var a first before
you do an assignment.
And you can optionally combine
those two into the same thing, but
you would always wanna formally
declare every variable.
And the way we typically do that
in JavaScript up to this point,
is with the var keyword.
There's two more coming in ES6,
one is called let, and
the other one we mentioned
earlier is const.
Let and
const are block scoping declarations,
rather than a function scoping
declaration like var is.
What that means has a whole
chapter [LAUGH] in the book, so
I won't get into that too much.
But those are the three ways that you
formally declare a variable in JavaScript.
There's one other way to formally
declare an identifier, and
that is to declare it as a function.
And we haven't talked about functions yet,
but if I said function a,
I'm declaring a variable called a,
which has this function value in it.
So you always want to formally
declare your variables,
in one of the ways that I just showed.
Let me put those other ones by.
>> Kyle: Those are the ways to
formally declare variables, and
you're always gonna want to do
one of those in your programs.
There's a notion in many programming
languages, and JavaScript is no different.
That if I had a collection of statements,
like var a = 42,
and foo (a / ), these are statements.
And if I had a collection of statements
that represented a logical unit together.
Then I could put those statements
together inside of a curly brace pair,
like we see there, and
that's called a block.
A block, essentially,
is a pairing of curly braces with one or
more statements inside of it.
Now this block is a completely
stand-alone, empty block,
it doesn't mean anything
the way we've expressed it.
It's a stylistic thing, it says these
two things belong together, and
they're separate from other stuff.
Like if you had a program
that looked like this,
and you had stuff up here,
and you had stuff down here.
You're stylistically signalling
these two things in between,
they're kind of special.
They're shut off, they're their own deal.
So there's not any
functional difference here.
But most of the time blocks are not
appearing by themselves like that,
most of the time they
appear associated with.
Another kind of a statement, so
there's different kinds of statements
that have blocks associated with them.
For example, which we'll into in
a little bit, the if statement.
So if I wrote a statement
where I wanted to say,
if a was greater than 10,
and attach a block to it.
Then what I'm saying is,
look at this statement,
and figure out if that's true or false.
Is the value currently in a,
greater than 10, or not?
It's only one of two
possible answers here.
In our program we would have
had to declare the var a, and
give it some useful
value like the value 42.
And then give it some
other value down here.
So if I said if a is greater than 10,
is the answer yes or no?
>> Speaker 2: Yes, it's greater than 10.
>> Kyle: Yes, it's greater than 10, so
we would go into the block only if
we answered yes to this question.
This asked a question,
we go into that block and
do these things only if
the question answered, yes.
In programming terms, yes and no
are actually what are called the values,
true and false.
So the question is is that statement true,
and the answer is, yes, it is true.
So we would execute the stuff inside
of the block, otherwise we don't.
So that's one way to attach a block
to something, is to an if statement.
Another way to attach to
a block to a statement,
is to have a loop, like a y loop,
or a 4 loop, or whatever.
And we'll come to loops in just a moment,
but
you notice that this block again,
it belongs to that statement.
And it's only going to get executed
in the context of that statement.
So it will only get executed if this
loop is going to happen, in this case,
the loop is going to happen once.
Because the first time we enter,
a is greater than 42, but
immediately we set it to 10.
So the next time we try to do this loop,
it's not going to keep going.
Because a will no longer be greater
than 10, It will just be the 10 itself.
If we have a block that's not
associated with anything,
it means it's going to run every time.
Or, we can attach a block to something,
and
it means it's only going
to run conditionally.
If that statement actually results
in something that we want to do.
There's lots of places
where blocks can appear,
blocks can also appear as
part of a function statement.
So here that block of statements
only happens for this foo function.
Probably don't wanna call recursively,
so I'll call a different function here.
Now this block only happens if foo ever
gets called, so it doesn't run right away.
But if later in a program I
try to invoke the function,
then it would find that block and
it would run that block of code, okay?
So just think conceptually, if I wrap
a curly brace pair around the set of code,
I'm putting that as a collection of code.
And then I can attach that block to
various different kinds of statements.
And that will change how, and if, and
when that block gets executed,
that's the major takeaway.
>> Speaker 3: There is a question here
to the bottom, if you wanna read it.
>> Kyle: Question was essentially,
you can declare a function like that, or
you can declare a function-
>> Kyle: Like that,
and technically there's a third variation.
Which is to give it a name itself,
which doesn't have to be the same.
Those are all functions,
those are not all function declarations.
The first line is a function declaration,
the next two are function expressions
attached to a variable declaration.
There's a variety of
differences between these, and
we'd get too far off track if worry too
much about those nuanced differences.
So there's a variety of differences
between them, but the major takeaway here
that you would want to-
>> Kyle: That you would
wanna not forget, is that in all
three [COUGH] of these cases,
the block is associated to a function.
And the block will not run
unless you execute the function.
>> Kyle: So the nuanced differences
between function declarations and
variable declarations with
function expression assignments.
Those nuanced differences are outside
our scope of discussion here.
They are covered in depth
in the book series.
So next steps,
you would wanna pay more attention
to that reading through the books.
They're also covered in my training,
my advanced JavaScript training.